# Laravel DuitKu

DuitKu API implementation in laravel.
Initially made for personal use, so it’s a bit biased.

## Installation

```bash
composer install susutawar/duitku-laravel

php artisan vendor:publish --tag="duitku"
```

## Configuring

add the following to your `.env` file.

```bash
DUITKU_MERCHANT_ID=
DUITKU_API_KEY=
DUITKU_SANDBOX_MODE=
DUITKU_RETURN_URL=
```

- Fill out `DUITKU_MERCHANT_ID`, `DUITKU_API_KEY` with credentials you obtain from [duitku](https://dashboard.duitku.com/).
- Set `DUITKU_SANDBOX_MODE` to `1` to use DuitKu in sandbox mode, or `0` to use it in production mode.
- Setup `DUITKU_RETURN_URL` to any route you have configured. this will be used by DuitKu ([see documentation](https://docs.duitku.com/api/id/#redirect)). The value can be a route name or a URL.

You can check `config/duitku.php` for more setting/information.

## Usage

### Get Payments

Get available payment methods from DuitKu. [see documentation](https://docs.duitku.com/api/id/#get-payment-method)

```php
use SusuTawar\Facade\Duitku;

// ...

// the result is a Laravel Collection
$paymentMethods = Duitku::getPayments($paymentAmount);
```

### Make Transaction

Start a transaction using DuitKu. [see documentation](https://docs.duitku.com/api/id/#permintaan-transaksi)

```php
use SusuTawar\Facade\Duitku;

// ...

$paymentMethods = Duitku::makeTransaction(/* params */);
```

The resulting object contains `trx`, `url`, `qr`, and `va`:

- `trx`: The transaction number generated by DuitKu. Save this to your system.
- `url`: A link to the transaction page on DuitKu.
- `qr`: A string representing QRIS. You must generate QR images from this string yourself.
- `va`: The virtual account number for payment methods that support it.

### Check Transaction

Check the status of a transaction using your transaction ID. [see documentation](https://docs.duitku.com/api/id/#cek-transaksi)

```php
use SusuTawar\Facade\Duitku;

// ...

$checkResult = Duitku::check($yourTransactionId);
```

### Error Handling

Instead of returning `false` or `null`, when something unexpected occurred we will throw an `Exception` instead.
You can catch the exception by its specific type or catch all exceptions with Exception, then use the provided message.

- `DuitKuAuthException`: Occurs when the provided authentication credentials cannot be authenticated by DuitKu.
- `DuitKuBadRequestException`: Occurs when the provided parameters are not valid according to DuitKu.
- `DuitKuNotFoundException`: Occurs when the specified resource is not available in DuitKu.
- `DuitKuPaymentException`: Occurs when something goes wrong with the payment.

## Callback Routing

We automatically register the [callback](https://docs.duitku.com/api/id/#callback) route.
To handle the incoming callback, create a class implementing `SusuTawar\Interfaces\DuitKuCallbackInterface`,
and register it in `config/duitku.php` under `routing.callback_handler`

```php
"routing" => [
  // ...
  "callback_handler" => MyCallbackHandler::class,
]
```

If you prefer to manually set up the callback, disable this feature by updating the configuration:

```php
"routing" => [
  "enabled" => false,
  // ...
]
```

When this feature is disabled, you need to set the `callback_url` or add `DUITKU_CALLBACK_URL`
to your `.env` file. Otherwise, the `callback_url` will default to `home` or `/`.
